_labs/001-account.markdown, before:

---
layout: lab
title: Create IBM Cloud-Account
---

Before we can start, we need to create an _IBM Cloud_ account:

## Get the Promo-Code

* Open [TODO.onthehub.com](https://TODO.onthehub.com/) in a browser
* Put the "_IBM Cloud_ Promo Code - 6 Month Trial" into the shopping cart.
* Confirm the account by clicking the link in the eMail you received.
* Register for the _IBM Cloud_-Promo-Code with your personal *registration code* that you received. You don't need the option "Request Additional Eligibility".
* Go back to the shopping cart and then to the checkout.
* Check the terms and conditions and choose "Accept", if you agree.
* Complete the details form. For the course name, you can use `Hochschule Reutlingen Cloud Demo`.
* Note down the promo code (it has the format `AAAAAAAA-BBBB-CCCC-DDDD-EEEEEEEEEEEE`).

With the promo code, you can now create a new _IBM Cloud_ account and extend the trial period by 6 more months. The code can only be used once. It is only valid for five months after creation.

## Create IBM Cloud Account

* Create a new account on [bluemix.net](https://bluemix.net).
* Confirm the account by clicking the link in the eMail you received.
* Provide a name for the new organization that is being created for you, e.g. your eMail address.
* As a region, choose Germany.

    ![Organisation anlegen](create-org.png)

* Create a new space, e.g. `dev`.

## Extend the trial period to 180 days

* Enter your promo code under Account => Billing & Usage => Billing:

    ![Billing](billing.png)

    You will get a message saying that your account will be converted to a trial account. The quota will be raised to 2 GB, too.

    ![Promo-Code eingeben](enter-promo-code.png)

* Check that your trial period was extended by 180 days:

    ![Trial verlängert](trial-extended.png)

If you run into any issues, ask one of the facilitators or open a support ticket under Support => Add Ticket.

Commit message:

Fix wording for promo code

_labs/001-account.markdown, after:

---
layout: lab
title: Create IBM Cloud-Account
---

Before you can start, you will need to create an _IBM Cloud_ account and a promo code for it.

## Get the Promo-Code

* Open [TODO.onthehub.com](https://TODO.onthehub.com/) in a browser
* Put the "_IBM Cloud_ Promo Code - 6 Month Trial" into the shopping cart.
* Confirm the account by clicking the link in the eMail you received.
* Register for the _IBM Cloud_-Promo-Code with your personal *registration code* that you received. You don't need the option "Request Additional Eligibility".
* Go back to the shopping cart and then to the checkout.
* Check the terms and conditions and choose "Accept", if you agree.
* Complete the details form. For the course name, you can use `Hochschule Reutlingen Cloud Demo`.
* Note down the promo code (it has the format `AAAAAAAA-BBBB-CCCC-DDDD-EEEEEEEEEEEE`).

With the promo code, you can now create a new _IBM Cloud_ account and extend the trial period by 6 more months. The code can only be used once. It is only valid for five months after creation.

## Create IBM Cloud Account

* Create a new account on [bluemix.net](https://bluemix.net).
* Confirm the account by clicking the link in the eMail you received.
* Provide a name for the new organization that is being created for you, e.g. your eMail address.
* As a region, choose Germany.

    ![Organisation anlegen](create-org.png)

* Create a new space, e.g. `dev`.

## Extend the trial period to 180 days

* Enter your promo code under Account => Billing & Usage => Billing:

    ![Billing](billing.png)

    You will get a message saying that your account will be converted to a trial account. The quota will be raised to 2 GB, too.

    ![Promo-Code eingeben](enter-promo-code.png)

* Check that your trial period was extended by 180 days:

    ![Trial verlängert](trial-extended.png)

If you run into any issues, ask one of the facilitators or open a support ticket under Support => Add Ticket.
