_labs/005-port-app-to-bx.markdown, before:

---
layout: default
title: Chat App auf Bluemix portieren
---

# {{ page.title }}

## Get the code

Clone your repository to your local disk.

## Create a manifest

Create a new deployment `manifest.yml` file in the cloned directory with the content shown below.
Be sure to provide a name that is unique (globally!!!) and replace the `**********` below:

```
---
applications:
- name: ************
  memory: 512M
  instances: 1
```
This is a fairly simple manifest that should work for you as well. If you need want to check for more options please see https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest.html.

## Deploy

Run `bx cf push` to push this to IBM Cloud.

Once your app is working successfully, proceed to the next step.

## Create a CI/CD pipeline

Got to the Bluemix main menu ![main navigation](./main_menu.png?raw=true)
and click on `DevOps`.

On the next screen, select `Create Toolchain` ![create_tc](create_toolchain.png?raw?true)

Select the `Simple Cloudfoundry Toolchain` ![simepl_cf](simple_cf_tc.png?raw=true)) and provide a name in the right (Bluemix-)organization ![tc_name](tc_name.png?raw=true).

You now need to connect your git repository to that toolchain, so that once you push your code on the command line of your local workstation, the toolchain takes over to process the deployment to Bluemix ![tc_git](tc_git.png)

Once you created the toolchain, the individual tools should show `Configured` ![tc_config](toolchain_config.png)


## Test

Commit message:

added toolchain creation, changed Bluemix -> IBM Cloud

_labs/005-port-app-to-bx.markdown, after:

---
layout: default
title: Chat App auf IBM Cloud portieren
---

# {{ page.title }}

## Get the code

Clone your repository to your local disk.

## Create a manifest

Create a new deployment `manifest.yml` file in the cloned directory with the content shown below.
Be sure to provide a name that is unique (globally!!!) and replace the `**********` below:

```
---
applications:
- name: ************
  memory: 512M
  instances: 1
```
This is a fairly simple manifest that should work for you as well. If you need want to check for more options please see https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest.html.

## Deploy

Run `bx cf push` to push this to IBM Cloud.

Once your app is working successfully, proceed to the next step.

## Create a CI/CD pipeline

- Go to the _IBM Cloud_ main menu ![main navigation](main_menu.png?raw=true)
and click on `DevOps`, then click on `Toolchains` ![tc](tc.png?raw=true)

- On the next screen, select `Create Toolchain` ![create_tc](create_toolchain.png?raw?true)

- Select the `Simple Cloudfoundry Toolchain` ![simepl_cf](simple_cf_tc.png?raw=true))
and provide a name in the right (_IBM Cloud_-)organization ![tc_name](tc_name.png?raw=true).

- You now need to connect your git repository to that toolchain, so that once you push your code on the command line of your local workstation.

- You may need to authorize _IBM Cloud_ to access your `GitHub` account. ![git_auth](git_auth.png
  )
- The toolchain takes over to process the deployment to _IBM Cloud_ ![tc_git](tc_git.png)

- Once you created the toolchain, the individual tools should show `Configured` ![tc_config](toolchain_config.png) and the build and deploy steps are triggered automatically. ![tc_pipeline](tc_pipeline.png)

- _IBM Cloud_ generates a hostname based on the git repository name, in this case `chat.mybluemix.net`. There is a reasonable chance that this name is already taken, so we need to work around this.
Create a `manifest.yml` with the following content:
```
---
applications:
- name: WhoChats
  memory: 128M
  host: whochats
```
on your local machine. Then manually run `cf push` and verify your app is picking up the right name. _IBM Cloud_ is adding your host to the `mybluemix.net` domain  by default so your FQDN is `<host>.mybluemix.net`. Once you can access your hostname, commit and push your changes to git and wait for the pipeline to finish.


## Test
